Partner Experience: revamp ingestion docs and guidelines (#168)
stellar/stellar-docs: docs/run-platform-server/ingestion.mdx

import { CodeExample } from "@site/src/components/CodeExample";

> Horizon API provides most of its utility through ingested data, and your Horizon server can be configured to listen for and ingest transaction results from the Stellar network. Ingestion enables API access to both current (e.g. someone's balance) and historical state (e.g. someone's transaction history).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Horizon API provides most of its utility through ingested data, and your Horizon server can be configured to listen for and ingest transaction results from the Stellar network. Ingestion enables API access to both current state (e.g. someone's balance) and historical state (e.g. someone's transaction history).
```

## Ingestion Types

There are two primary ingestion use-cases for Horizon operations:

- ingesting **live** data to stay up to date with the latest ledgers from the network, accumulating a sliding window of aged ledgers, and
- ingesting **historical** data to retroactively add network data from a time range in the past to the database.

## Determine storage space

> You should think carefully about the historical timeframe of ingested data you'd like to retain on Horizon's database. The storage requirements for every transaction from Stellar network are substantial and grow unbounded, increasing storage used by the Horizon database well into many terabytes and is an unsustainable deployment. Most organizations and operators only need a recent fraction of the historical data, to fit their use case. To Achieve minimal storage footprint, we recommend the following best practices:
> 
> - use **live** ingestion. only use and depend on **historical** ingestion in limited exceptional cases.
> - use [ingestion filter rules](./ingestion-filtering.mdx) based on accounts and assets related to your application space.
> - use temporal limits, if no filter rules are applied, we recommend limiting historical retention of ingested data to a sliding window of 1 month(`HISTORY_RETENTION_COUNT=518400`) and this is the [default set by Horizon](./configuring.mdx#ingestion-role-instance). This is based on metrics and trend analysis of our own API servers, we have seen most requests are for near term data.
>   - if not using filter rules and want to access historical data more than 1 month old, we recommend not using Horizon ingestion and its database for this purpose, instead consider usage of [Stellar Hubble Data Warehouse](https://www.stellar.org/developers-blog/try-our-new-analytics-dataset?locale=en).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should think carefully about the historical timeframe of ingested data you'd like to retain in Horizon's database. The storage requirements for transactions on the Stellar network are substantial and are growing unbounded over time. This is something that you may need to continually monitor and reevaluate as the network continues to grow. We have found that most organizations need only a small fraction of recent historical data to satisfy their use cases. Through analyzing traffic patterns on SDF's Horizon instance, we see that most requests are for very recent data. 

To keep your storage footprint small, we recommend the following:

- use **live** ingestion only use and depend on **historical** ingestion in limited exceptional cases
- we recommend limiting historical retention of ingested data to a sliding window of 1 month (`HISTORY_RETENTION_COUNT=518400`) and this is the [default set by Horizon](./configuring.mdx#ingestion-role-instance)
- if you cannot limit your history retention window, use [ingestion filter rules](./ingestion-filtering.mdx) to include only accounts and assets relevant to your application
- if you cannot limit your history retention window, and cannot use filter rules, we recommend considering [Stellar Hubble Data Warehouse](https://www.stellar.org/developers-blog/try-our-new-analytics-dataset?locale=en) for any historical data
```

Author: blended your suggestions in - https://github.com/stellar/stellar-docs/pull/168/commits/948494fff26bec22a0b4b01f636c26f393722265

### Ingesting Live Data

This option is enabled by default and is the recommended mode of ingestion to run. It is controlled with environent configuration flag `INGEST`. Refer to [Configuration](./configuring.mdx) for how an instance of Horizon performs the ingestion role.

> For a H/A requirements, **we highly recommend having more than one live ingesting instance**, as this makes it easier to avoid downtime during upgrades and adds resilience to your infrastructure, ensuring you always have the latest network data, refer to [Ingestion Role Instance](./configuring.mdx#multiple-instance-deployment)

Author: High Availability, will change that, avoid acronyms

## Ingestion Types

There are two primary ingestion use-cases for Horizon operations:

- ingesting **live** data to stay up to date with the latest ledgers from the network, accumulating a sliding window of aged ledgers
- ingesting **historical** data to retroactively add network data from a time range in the past to the database

## Determine storage space

You should think carefully about the historical timeframe of ingested data you'd like to retain in Horizon's database. The storage requirements for transactions on the Stellar network are substantial and are growing unbounded over time. This is something that you may need to continually monitor and reevaluate as the network continues to grow. We have found that most organizations need only a small fraction of recent historical data to satisfy their use cases. Through analyzing traffic patterns on SDF's Horizon instance, we see that most requests are for very recent data.

To keep your storage footprint small, we recommend the following:

> - use **live** ingestion only use and depend on **historical** ingestion in limited exceptional cases

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use **live** ingestion. Use **historical** ingestion only in exceptional cases
```

> - if your application requires access to all network data, no filtering can be done, we recommend limiting historical retention of ingested data to a sliding window of 1 month (HISTORY_RETENTION_COUNT=518400) which is default set by Horizon

Reviewer 2: Since this is the first time we're mentioning "filtering" in this context, it might be helpful to add link to the ingestion-filtering doc.

- if your application can work on a filtered network dataset based on specific accounts and assets, then we recommend applying ingestion filter rules. When using filter rules, it provides benefit of choice in longer historical retention timeframe since the filtering is reducing the overall database size to such a degree, historical retention(`HISTORY_RETENTION_COUNT`) can be set in terms of years rather than months or even disabled(`HISTORY_RETENTION_COUNT=0`)
- if you cannot limit your history retention window to 30 days and cannot use filter rules, we recommend considering [Stellar Hubble Data Warehouse](https://developers.stellar.org/docs/accessing-data/overview) for any historical data

### Ingesting Live Data

> This option is enabled by default and is the recommended mode of ingestion to run. It is controlled with environent configuration flag `INGEST`. Refer to [Configuration](./configuring.mdx) for how an instance of Horizon performs the ingestion role.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This option is enabled by default and is the recommended mode of ingestion to run. It is controlled with environment configuration flag `INGEST`. Refer to [Configuration](./configuring.mdx) for how an instance of Horizon performs the ingestion role.
```

</CodeExample>

> Running any historical range of ingestion requires coordination with the data retention configuration chosen. If you have a temporal limit on history set with `HISTORY_RETENTION_COUNT=<LEDGER_COUNT>` then it makes no sense to ingest any time range that is older as it will get purged from the database almose as soon as it's added.

Reviewer 2: May be we can make it more affirmative like "When setting an ingestion time range higher than the temporal limit, the temporal limit takes precedence, and any data ingested beyond that limit will be automatically purged."

Typically the only time you need to run historical ingestion is once when boot-strapping a system after first deployment, from that point forward **live** ingestion will keep the database populated with the expected sliding window of trailing historical data. Maybe one exception is if you think you have a gap in the database caused by the **live** ingestion being down, in which case you can run historical ingestion range to essentially gap fill.

> You can run historical ingestion in parallel in background while your main Horizon server separately performs **live** ingestion. If the range specified overlaps with data already in the database, it will simply be overwritten, effectively idempotent.

Reviewer 2: It might be helpful to explicitly mention that overlapping range is not an issue with something like "it is OK to specify a range that overlaps with existing data in the database...."

</CodeExample>

### Notes

#### Some endpoints may report not available during **live** ingestion

Endpoints that display current state information from **live** ingestion may return `503 Service Unavailable`/`Still Ingesting` error. An example is the `/paths` endpoint (built using offers). Such endpoints will become available after **live** ingestion has finished network synchronization and catch up(usually within a couple of minutes).

#### If more than five minutes has elapsed with no new ingested data:

- Verify host machine meets recommended [Prerequisites](./prerequisites.mdx).

- Check horizon log output.

>   - Are there many `level=error` messages, maybe an environmental issue, access to database is lost, etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - If there are many `level=error` messages, it may point to an environmental issue, inability to access the database.
```
